We're now going to talk about
pretty much I think one of my
all time favorite subjects as a developer
especially as an Angular developer.
And so for
this we are going to use a few slides and
we're going to talk about
Component Driven Architecture.
But first, a little bit of back story,
a brief history of Angular.
So this is not the first time that I've
talked about this in a public forum,
but it's really, really important to
illustrate how we got to where we are now.
And so, when I first discovered
AngularJS I had spent a lot of time,
many, many,
many years doing really Flex and Flash.
And I saw the writing was on the wall,
I wanted to get into JavaScript.
And I became very frustrated
very quickly in the sense that,
say what you want about, I think
the Flash Player, the Flash platform was
a lot of the growing pains they were
going through, we're now experiencing it.
And so there was a lot of
structure a lot of definition.
And then you move into, I'm using
air quotes, a JQuery application,
which is most certainly not unless you
can consider a bowl of spaghetti or
kit kat lasagna as
an application framework.
Then I went to the next big thing, the
major player on the block at that time was
backbone which had no opinions whatsoever,
and then so I was a little frustrated.
And then I discovered AngularJS,
which was magical,
you had this kind of view model paradigm.
And you could write very tiny apps
very quickly with a tiny view and
a tiny controller.
And I became very, very excited about,
in fact, you don't even need a controller
with AngularJS, you just can
actually put something in the view.
So I got excited and I said,
I think I wanna build something ambitious.
And so I went and not only that,
I'd like to get paid for it.
So I went to my employer at the time and
I said, I wanna give this a shot.
And so we started building applications
and they started to grow and
get bigger until this is
what we ended up with,
is this application which really
consisted of a single template and
a single controller.
And it was kind of this, moment because
when you're working on a large team,
or even a team with more than two people,
and you need to work in the same file.
Well, that becomes very problematic
to where you have to start making
deals like okay,
I'm from line zero to 1000.
Don't touch that but
anything over line 1000 you can work on.
It's not a great experience.
And so what 1.x came up with,
really some architecture
opinions started to emerge.
The first one was using named routes
is that you would essentially create,
a router outlet and say this is sidebar.
This is content, this is footer, and then
you would essentially load a template and
a controller into that named route.
So you still have that template controller
pattern, it's just getting broken down.
The other more prevalent one is or
I was actually not as prevalent,
but in hindsight,
is that creating directives or
custom elements that you
could do the same thing.
Which is the precursor for
really any angular application today.
And this is again, hats off to React,
I think they really accelerated
frontend development by leaps and
bounds when they introduce this
component driven components
centric approach to
application development.
Now, what I think is interesting
is the extension of that which
I've started to see a lot more is native
or just basic native web components.
And you can achieve that with Angular,
which I think is really interesting is
that now the idea is, you don't even
have to target a specific framework.
Use whatever framework
you're comfortable with.
And if you compile into a web component,
well then it doesn't matter.
And so I know even one of my friends.
Here is a large application for
a very large company.
And they have React 1.x
Angular components, but
because they're being compiled into
web components, it doesn't matter.
So I really believe that's where
the future of web is going is to
kind of these web components that
are really framework agnostic.
So, this is how every Angular component,
or Angular application
by design is developed,
is that you now break things into
components that have a template.
And now what used to be
a controller is a component class.
And so this helps us solve a couple
of really important problems.
The first one is structure.
How do you structure your application
in a way that's scalable,
that it's portable, that it's stable,
it's extensible, all the ables?
And by breaking things into components,
this helps solve that problem.
The other pieces that helps solve
the problem of communication,
is that when data changes, or
there's a state mutation in your
application, how do you communicate that?
Well, if you have a bunch of components
and they're mishmash together,
it's very hard to reason about this needs
to go here and this needs to go here.
But by having a sane and
clear component hierarchy,
that with a unidirectional data flow,
which I'll talk about just a minute,
that not only solves a structural problem,
but the communication problem.
Make a little mental note of that
because I'm going to come back and
talk about that in kind of a tada,
kind of a moment here.
So, with that said, the idea
is to break things into kind of
these self encapsulated components
that handle like a single
piece of functionality.
And so the question I want to ask is,
we've played around with event binding
we've played around with property binding.
But what if we had the ability
to create a component and
define our own custom properties that we
could bind to, and our own custom events?
So this is where when you're
talking about really components,
it the introductory level,
property binding is not that interesting.
But what if you had a child component
that you could define a custom
property to pass data into?
And so what if we could define custom
properties and events to bind to?
Well, we can and
that's in the form of inputs and outputs.
And so you can pass data into a child
component via its template via an input.
You can capture the output of a child
component via an event or a custom output.
And so, when you have an Angular
application in a child and
a parent exist, we have a parent
then you have a child component.
Where is the surface area that they exist?
How do we get a component onto the page.
Well, we use the selector.
And so this selector of the child
component lives in the parents template.
And so that's where they kind of
intersect where that they
bought up against each other.
And so, what this looks like it's from
the parent, you're passing a property or
you're binding to a property
on the child component.
And you're just listening for an event.
But on the child component is
that's coming in via an input,
and you're emitting the event via output.
And so I'm going to skip
these tech slides here and
I think let's get right into the code.
So I think sometimes not sometimes,
but a lot of times it's easier
to kinda look at a high level.
It kind of some pictures and so
that's where, with the arrows and stuff,
it's very easy for, I think,
at least for me to see but
then from here, let's get into the code.
And so what we have here is
kind of this large component
and if we look at this,
if we look at it being rendered.
This could certainly be
a standalone component.
And this could be a standalone component.
And so let's break these out.
And let's do this in a way that
not only we can reuse it, but
we can control the structure and the
communication that happening around that.
So let's hop into our command line.
And let's generate some components.
So let's do ng, g, and we're
going to do c and let's do courses.
And we'll do courses-list.
And I'm gonna do d because I don't know
what's gonna happen, or it could go awry.
So what happened here is is saying I don't
know what module to put this component in.
The reason being is in the,
Rich directory, we now have two modules.
So this is where when you come in,
I think it's app module = or rather module
= app.module and doing this from memory,
so if I mess this up, it's certainly not
module There we go.
And so
now I'm saying specifically add this in or
generate this but
hook this up into the app module.
And so of course/courses-list.
Very good.
So I'm gonna take this off and
we're going to do this for real.
Now let's do one more so
in ng g c courses,
Course, Details and
we'll do module=app.module.ts,
we'll do a dry run here,
And there we go, so I think we're good,
so let me take off the drive on flag.
And we're going to generate this.
So now what I've done is I've created
a list component and a details component.
So hop back into the code, and
now if we look in courses, we have
course details so it's a single course.
Then we have courses-list.
And from here what we
can do is let's take and
let's go ahead and add this to the dom.
So if we go here we have, notice I had
already picked up app-courses-list,
so I'm just gonna close this and I'm
gonna go ahead and just comment this out.
And then in the course-details,
let's go with app-course.
Oops, app-course-details.
And we're just gonna start over.
So app, there we go, super.
Now, I'm going to comment this out.
Let's save this and let's see what wonders
I have brought before this workshop.
Course-list works,
course-details works, boom.
So I think everybody just
got their money's worth.
Probably one of the most
relevant things I've done so
far today, but I think I can do better.
So I'm just going to pick up
this code that I commented out.
So notice I'm refactoring and
I'm going to go into the template,
the course-list component template,
just to be specific in case
anybody was wondering.
And I'm gonna uncomment this out.
Okay?
Now, What I'm going to do is,
I'm going to remove this event handler for
now.
And I'm also going to remove
this event handler for now.